Web Development 101
    The Basics
        Command Line Basics
            What is the command line?
            How do you open it on your computer?
            How can you navigate into a particular directory?
            Where will cd on its own navigate you to?
            Where will cd .. navigate you to?
            How can you display the name of the directory you are currently in?
            How can you display the contents of the directory you are currently in?
            How can you create a new directory?
            How can you create a new file?
            How can you destroy a directory or file?
            How can you rename a directory or file?

    Git Basics
        Git Basics
            Name the git command used to get a full copy of an existing git repository from Github
            Name the git command used to check the status of your files
            Name the git command used to track files
            Name the git command used to commit files
            Name the git command used to view your commit history
            Name the git command used to upload projects onto GitHub

        Project: Practising Git Basics
            Create a Git repository on GitHub and move it onto your local machine
            Describe the difference between staging and committing changes
            Describe the difference between committing your changes and pushing them onto GitHub
            Check the status of your current repository from the command line
            Look at the history of your previous commits from the command line

    The Front End
        Introduction to the Front End
            What is the role of HTML in a web page?
            What is the role of CSS in a web page?
            What is the role of Javascript in a web page?

        HTML and CSS Basics
            Why do we separate HTML and CSS?
            What are classes and IDs (and how are they different)?
            What are elements?
            What are tags?
            What are attributes?
            What are forms?
            What is a div?
            What are selectors?
            What are properties?
            What are values?
            What is the “query string” in a URL and what does it do?
            What is the difference between “pixels” and “ems”?
            How do CSS styles for a particular element get inherited? i.e. how does an element get its “default” styles?
            What are two CSS attributes you can change to push an element around on the page?
            What are the three different ways to include CSS in your project or use CSS to style a particular element?
            What is the “default stylesheet” or “user agent stylesheet”?
            Why use a CSS reset file?

        Developer Tools
            You can open the developer tools in your browser.
            You can select a specific html element in your page with dev tools.
            You can you use developer tools to experiment with the css on specific elements on a web page.

    JavaScript Basics
        Fundamentals Part 1
            How do you declare a variable in javascript?
            What are three different ways to declare a variable?
            Which one should you use when?
            What are the rules for naming variables?
            What are operators, operands, and operations?
            What is concatenation and what happens when you add numbers and strings together?
            What are the different type of operators in Javascript?
            What is the difference between == and ===?
            What are operator precedence values?
            What are the increment/decrement operators?
            What is the difference between prefixing and postfixing them?
            What are assignment operators?
            What is the “Unary +” Operator?

        Fundamentals Part 2
            What are the seven data types of javascript?
            Which data type is NOT primitive?
            What is the difference between single, double, and backtick quotes for strings?
            Which type of quote lets you embed variables/expressions into a string?
            How do you embed variables/expressions into a string?
            How do you escape characters in a string?
            What is the difference between slice/substring/substr?
            What are methods?
            What are the three logical operators and what do they stand for?
            What are the comparison operators?
            What is nesting?
            What are truthy and falsy values?
            What are the falsy values in Javascript?
            What is the syntax for an if/else if/else conditional?
            What is the syntax for a switch statement?
            What is the syntax for a ternary operator?
            What is the relationship between null and undefined?
            What are conditionals?

        DOM Manipulation
            What is DOM in relation to a webpage?
            What's the difference between a "node" and an "element"?
            How do you target nodes with "selectors"?
            What are the basic methods for finding/adding/removing and altering DOM nodes?
            What is the difference between a "nodelist" and an "array of nodes"?
            How do "events" and "listeners" work? What are three ways to use events in your code?
            How does "bubbling" work?

    The Back End
        Introduction to the Back End
            What the difference between front- and back-end development is
    
        Ruby Basics
            What is an “interpreted” language?
            What is IRB?
            What are Objects?
            What are Methods?
            What are Classes?
            What are Blocks?
            What is an Array?
            What is an Iterator?
            What are hashes?
            What is a library?
            What is a gem?

        Databases
            What is a database?
            What are relational databases?
            How are relational databases different from XML?
            What is SQL?
            What is SQL used for?
            What does CRUD stand for?
            Why is the idea of “CRUD” so important for web apps?
            How do you get all the records from a table in SQL?
            How do you insert a record in SQL?
            What is a primary key?
            What is a foreign key?